Efficient Softbody Deformation via Hybrid Physics-Neural Methods

I am exploring a computational framework to enable real-time softbody 
deformations on low-tier hardware by integrating physics-based simulation with 
neural networks. The approach combines spring-mass dynamics and Laplacian mesh 
constraints to maintain geometric stability while introducing strain-dependent 
plasticity caps that limit permanent deformation. To reduce computational load, 
a lightweight neural network interpolates intermediate deformation states 
between coarse physics updates, avoiding costly iterative solves.
This work addresses the trade-offs of traditional methods: finite element 
analysis (FEA) is too computationally intensive for real-time use, while pure 
mass-spring systems often exhibit instability or energy loss. The hybrid model 
prioritizes plausibility over physical precision, targeting applications where 
hardware constraints preclude conventional techniques. Current efforts focus on 
formalizing the coupling between neural predictions and physics constraints to 
prevent simulation drift.
Future work includes benchmarking against projective dynamics and industry 
standard baselines, as well as evaluating performance on mobile GPUs. 

This framework targets scenarios demanding bounded accuracy contexts where 
visual plausibility and interactive performance outweigh the need for 
engineering-grade precision. Potential applications include architectural 
previsualization tools, where designers might simulate tensile fabric behavior 
to identify buckling trends without requiring exact stress values, or casual 
engineering simulators for teaching basic material yield concepts. In gaming, it
could enable stylized destruction physics (e.g., deformable terrain in survival 
games) that feel more "material-aware" than traditional blend-shape animations, 
yet avoid the computational burden of finite-element methods. However, its 
neural interpolation and homogeneous material assumptions limit quantitative 
reliability, making it unsuitable for safety-critical simulations. The approach 
fills a niche between purely artistic deformation tools and high-fidelity 
solvers, offering predictable behavior for iterative design workflows where 
“directionally accurate” results matter more than millimeter-perfect fidelity.

# Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request for any
improvements or bug fixes. Ensure your code follows the project's style 
guidelines and includes appropriate tests.

# License
This project is licensed under the GNU Public License. See the LICENSE file for 
details.

# Acknowledgments
Special thanks to contributors and collaborators who helped refine the 
framework.
Inspired by games like Grand Theft Auto 4, and other advancements in real-time 
deformation techniques in blender.

Alpha prototypes for a rudimentary soft-body plastic deformation engine have 
been added to this repository. I will continue to add more content as my 
research progresses.
For questions or feedback, please reach out to [kabeer11000@gmail.com] or open 
an issue in the repository.
